docs/source/gnuradio.rst, before:

GNU Radio
============================
1. Install GNU Radio (Installation instructions at the `gnu radio wiki <https://wiki.gnuradio.org/index.php/InstallingGR>`_)
    (On Linux, ``sudo apt-get install gnuradio``)

2. Install gr-limesdr
    - On Linux, installation instructions can be found on the `github page <https://github.com/myriadrf/gr-limesdr/tree/gr-3.8>`_.
    - On Windows, installation instructions can be found on the `older github page <https://github.com/myriadrf/gr-limesdr/>`_.

3. Ensure that your lime device is plugged in with an antenna that supports VHF

4. Open GNU Radio Companion

5. Open the `FM receiver example <https://github.com/myriadrf/LimeSuiteNG/blob/develop/plugins/gr-limesuiteng/examples/FM_receiver.grc>`_.

6. CTRL+F "LimeSDR Source (RX)"

7. Drag and drop the block into the workspace. Connect the "out" port to the "in" port of the Low Pass Filter block.

8. Configure the block:

    - RF frequency: baseband*1e6
    - Sample rate: samp_rate

    .. image:: ./images/GNURadio/limeFMReceiver.png
        :width: 450 px

9. Press the play button and in the new window that opens, change the baseband field to an FM radio station.

    .. image:: ./images/GNURadio/LimeFMGraph.png
        :width: 450 px

Commit message:

Lime instructions for GNU radio

docs/source/gnuradio.rst, after:

GNU Radio
============================
1. Install GNU Radio (Installation instructions at the `gnu radio wiki <https://wiki.gnuradio.org/index.php/InstallingGR>`_)
    (On Linux, ``sudo apt-get install gnuradio``)

2. Install any blocks necessary for your SDR
    Lime devices:
        install gr-limesdr
            On Linux, installation instructions can be found on the `github page <https://github.com/myriadrf/gr-limesdr/tree/gr-3.8>`_.
            On Windows, installation instructions can be found on the `older github page <https://github.com/myriadrf/gr-limesdr/>`_.
    Adalm pluto:
        Use of GNU radio with this SDR is not recommended. We could not successfully get the blocks and a compatible GNU radio version.
    USRP:
        Chances are, you have the blocks for this installed with GNU radio.

        .. tip::

            If building GNU radio from source (Linux), you will see instructions to install UHD before proceeding with the rest of installation.
    RTL-SDR:
        No software installation required.

3. Ensure that your lime device is plugged in with an antenna that supports VHF

4. Open GNU Radio Companion

5. Open the `FM receiver example <https://github.com/myriadrf/LimeSuiteNG/blob/develop/plugins/gr-limesuiteng/examples/FM_receiver.grc>`_.

6. CTRL+F "LimeSDR Source (RX)" or a source for your SDR

7. Drag and drop the block into the workspace. Connect the "out" port to the "in" port of the Low Pass Filter block.

8. Configure the block:

    - RF frequency: baseband*1e6
    - Sample rate: samp_rate

    .. image:: ./images/GNURadio/limeFMReceiver.png
        :width: 450 px

9. Press the play button and in the new window that opens, change the baseband field to an FM radio station.

    .. image:: ./images/GNURadio/LimeFMGraph.png
        :width: 450 px
