docs/source/index.rst, before:

SDR Setup
=====================================

This project is intended to provide instructions
for setting up a few SDR's on a few different platforms
including Linux and Raspberry Pi.
It also includes some examples on using an SDR for radio
and radar applications.

The tutorials are organized to explain how to setup the given SDR,
Environment or example.

Check out the SDR pages for how to setup
a particular SDR on linux.
Check out the Special Environments pages for
setting up more unique environments.
Check out the Examples pages for tutorials on
a how to use an SDR for a special use case.

.. caution::
   This project is under active development and is not complete!


Software Defined Radios
-----------------------
- :doc:`/sdr/limemini`
- :doc:`/sdr/limesdr`
- :doc:`/sdr/adalmpluto`
- :doc:`/sdr/usrpB210`


Special Environments
-----------------------
- :doc:`/raspberrypi`
- :doc:`/gnuradio`

Examples
----------------------
- :doc:`/examples/radio`
- :doc:`/examples/radar`


Contents
----------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   /sdr/limemini
   /sdr/limesdr
   /sdr/adalmpluto
   /sdr/usrpB210

   raspberrypi
   gnuradio

   /examples/radio
   /examples/radar

Commit message:

Soapy sdr (#15)
* basic tutorial for soapySDR

* updated index and added more links

---------

Co-authored-by: Elitearcanist <archtypeofepic@gmail.com>

docs/source/index.rst, after:

SDR Setup
=====================================

This project is intended to provide instructions
for setting up a few SDR's on a few different platforms
including Linux and Raspberry Pi.
It also includes some examples on using an SDR for radio
and radar applications.

The tutorials are organized to explain how to setup the given SDR,
Environment or example.

Check out the SDR pages for how to setup
a particular SDR on linux.
Check out the Special Environments pages for
setting up more unique environments.
Check out the Examples pages for tutorials on
a how to use an SDR for a special use case.

.. caution::
   This project is under active development and is not complete!


Software Defined Radios
-----------------------
- :doc:`/sdr/limemini`
- :doc:`/sdr/limesdr`
- :doc:`/sdr/adalmpluto`
- :doc:`/sdr/usrpB210`


Tools
-----------------------
- :doc:`/raspberrypi`
- :doc:`/gnuradio`
- :doc:`/tools/soapySDR`

Examples
----------------------
- :doc:`/examples/radio`
- :doc:`/examples/radar`


Contents
----------------------

.. probably make hidden in the future
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   /sdr/limemini
   /sdr/limesdr
   /sdr/adalmpluto
   /sdr/usrpB210

   raspberrypi
   gnuradio
   /tools/soapySDR

   /examples/radio
   /examples/radar
